What is Linux: Linux is an Open Source Operating System modelled on Unix, and developed in C language.

Features of Linux: 
  1. Linux is open-source, 
  2. Significantly reduces the monitory cost, 
  3.Huge base of developers that freely provide support, 
  4. It is Reliable as it runs smoothly and no need to reboot it repeatedly, 
  5. Licensing freedom to re-use and re-publish the code,
  6. Can be Customized if you want to change your system’s look
  7. New enhancements happening and updates come frequently
  8. More Secure than other Operating Systems

Where Linux is Used?: Linux is Used at Servers, Supercomputers, Embedded Systems, Android, Gaming and Visual effect Servers, & NASA.

Components of a Linux OS: 
  1. Init Program: The first program, which is responsible for the initialization of the system. Ex: sysvinit, systemd.
  2. Bootloader: A program which loads the operating system when the system is turned on. Ex: GNU Grub, Syslinux. 
  3. Software Libraries: Set of programming code used to develop and design software programs and applications.
  4. Package Management System: A collection of tools for Installation, Deletion, Configuration, and Upgradation of software. Ex: dpkg, RPM.
  5. Other Interface and application: Various applications and interfaces are used for various task performed by user.

Architecture of Linux OS: 
  1. HardWare: Hardware part of architecture includes all the peripheral devices. For Example: CPU, RAM, Hard Disk Drive,etc.
  2  Kernel: The kernel is the Interface between the Applications and the actual process done at the Hardware level.The Tasks performed by the Kernel are Resource Allocation, Security Management, Process management, Device Management, Scheduling, Memory Management.
  3. Shell: The shell is the interface which takes user-command and sends it to the kernel. Shell has got its own programming language and you can combine multiple commands in a single script.  
  4.
What is Linux Distribution(Distro)?: It is an Operating System having Linux kernel and GNU tools packaged with some more applications. Some of the popular Linux Distros are Ubuntu, Fedora, RedHat, Debian, CentOS, etc. The distro should be chosen based on the requirement of the user. 

Ubuntu: 
Most Popular Linux Distro
• Secure and reliable
• Multi-variant releases. Ex –Desktop, Server
• Frequent releases
• Easy to use
• It contains a wide range of software like LibreOffice, Thunderbird, etc. and also, games such as Sudoku and chess.

RedHat Linux:
• Mostly used for big Servers
• Has a maximum number of Hardware support
• Enterprise edition available with support
• Version 3.0.3 was one of the first Linux distribution
• New release in 2-3 years
• Secure and reliable

Shell Scripting: Shell Scripting is a series of shell commands arranged in a text file to be executed one after the other.
 1. Can be created using any normal text editor. 
 2. Helps to automate a sequence of task creating and also saves time.
 3. Similar to batch file in windows.
 4. Compiled like C/CPP program, but are interpreted directly.
 5. Each shell script must have executable permission to run the script.

Creating a Shell Script: 
  1. To get into the root for execution ---- sudo -i
  2. Create a text file and add the extension of the shell ---- vi script.sh.
  3. Enter some commands in the scripts to be executed ---- echo “My first Script”, echo $(date).
  4. Change the permission of the script, give it executable permission and may also give read and execute permission for other users ---- chmod 755 script.sh
  5. Run the script ---- ./script.sh, bash script.sh 

Practical Uses of Shell Scripting:
  1. Data backup at regular interval of time in the background. 
  2. To find out the number of users and their details.
  3. Find details about various processes and sorting them based on CPU usage, runtime, memory usage, users, etc.
  4. To append each file with a signature, date, etc.
  5. For scheduling tasks to be done at network servers.
  6. Creating new users by providing permissions just by entering username.

User Interface In Linux: User Interface is a visual part of Operating System through which a user interacts with a computer or a software
  1. Command Line Interface give commands in the form of lines of text to the program.
  2. The program which handles it is called a command language interpreter.
  3. Graphical user interface interacts with users with icons, folders, wallpapers, widgets and visual indicators to make it easier for the user to access the program
  4. For Linux, desktop environments are KDE, GNOME, CINNAMON, MATE, etc. 
  
  
File System: The file system is a logical arrangement to store and retrieve data.
   1. The file system can be local data storage via a network protocol or virtual files.
   2. Most of the file systems use hard disks which are made of small fixed size blocks. Each block has an identifier to describe the start and end of the block.
   3. Depending upon the file system architecture, file fragmentation occurs when some files are in noncontiguous clusters or some file are deleted.
   4. Each file has a metadata consisting of size, date and time of creation, file type, access permission, owner of a file, etc.

Type of File System:
   1. Disk File System: It manages data on a permanent storage device. Accessing the data for multiple request can be handled Ex – NTFS, FAT, etc.
   2. Network File System: It allows a user on a client computer to access the files over a computer network using NFS protocol. Ex – AFS, SMB.
   3. Special Purpose File System: The system API/device is given a file type representation to use according with Unix OS.

Examples of File System: 
   FAT: File Allocation Table (FAT) uses indexing for a contiguous area of disk store
   NTFS: New Technology File System (NTFS) uses advanced data structure to improve performance, reliability and disk space usage.
   ext4: Fourth Extended File System (ext4) is designed for Linux Kernel. It supports huge individual file size upto TB’s and almost one directory can contain 64,000 sub-directories
   XFS: It is a journaling file system that uses a B-tree (balance tree) to allocate data as fast as possible. It supports huge individual file size allocation.
   
File Attributes or Properties:  1) File name,  2) File Type,  3) Permission,  4) File size,  5) File location,  6) File date,  7) File Owner.

In first field, we have 10bits for access permissions.
(- ---  ---  ---) out of 10 bits, 
1st(-) bit identify or denotes the file type.
 - -- regular file
 d -- directory
 l -- symbolic link
 b -- Block special devices (HDD)
 c -- Character special device  (tty)
 P -- pipe
 s -- socket
 
 Next 3 bits(---) is the Access permission for the owner.
 Next 3 bits(---) is the Access permission for the group owner.
 Next 3 bits(---) is the Access permission for the others.
 
Second field for Link count. ---> by default every file will be having one link,  by default for every newly created directory will be having 2 links, 1 is for itself, 2nd one for parent directory.
The Link count will be changed according to number of sub directories.

File Operations: 
   Create: Allocate space on disk and make an entry.
   Write: Write the data in the file.
   Read: Read the data from the file.
   Delete: Delete the file to free the allocated memory.
   Move: Move files to a different location.
   

CentOS 7 Filesystem Hierarchy:

It is inverted tree structer like branches, then sub branches. The same Hierarchy inherited in Linux/Unix file system
Every thing is distrubuted, everything is not cattered and not stored in one particuar location. and it's just like a distributed file system.
 / ---> root of the file system or top level directory or starting point of file of the directory. under /root & /, we have multiple sub or child directories which are mentioned below.

boot - 
etc - user database & system configuration files will be saved in this directory 
proc - process related like dynamic process informantion
dev - hardware related information
home - all regular user will be having home directory 
root - 
var - 
usr - 
run - 
tmp - 
mnt - 
opt - 


